Greetings from the Diplomacy* Adjudicator!!                 25 February, 2003
absence.

An attempt to remove the greatest burden from moderators: that of
administering holiday requests.

Now players (and Masters too) can indicate periods when they will not be
available and when the game should extend its deadlines automatically.
Observers and inactive (eliminated) players cannot use the SET ABSENCE
command.

The following commands are available to signed-on players and Masters:

SET ABSENCE start_date [TO end_date]

     Requests an absence between the dates specified (defaulting to 24 hours
     if no end_date is given).  Neither start_date nor end_date can be before
     the current date.  If end_date is before start_date, the command will be
     ignored.  If absences are overlaid, they count as separate absences.

     IMPORTANT: Setting an absence never extends the *current* deadline; it
     only takes effect when a turn is processed, if the *next* deadline using
     the normal settings would fall after start_date.  A player who is going
     away needs to either submit their orders for the phase that is pending at
     start_date before they leave, pick a start_date that is early enough so
     that this won't be a problem, or ask the Master to extend the current
     deadline.  (Understandably, Masters may be unhappy if you choose the last
     option.)

     Start_date and end_date may use any of the date/time formats accepted for
     the "SET DEADLINE" command.  Get file 'deadlines' and see the section
     "HOW THE JUDGE INTERPRETS DATES".  Here's the short version:  The Judge
     only recognizes English three-letter month abbreviations and numeric
     dates, in either order -- for example, "SET ABSENCE Nov 23 TO 1 Dec"
     should work fine.  If no time is specified, it defaults to the Move Clock
     setting for the current game (i.e., the standard deadline time for move
     phases). 

     Odd results may sometimes occur if an absence is requested to begin or
     end on a day on which the Judge does not allow deadlines to fall.  So,
     for example, if your game's "days" setting is "--TWTF-", your best bet is
     to set an absence to start and end on a Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or
     Friday.  This is just a suggestion; the program will accept any day.
    
SET NOABSENCE start_date [TO end_date]

     Cancels a requested absence period. The period cancelled is one which
     includes the specified start_date. The end_date is ignored. The first
     absence found which includes the specified date is the one cancelled.

Examples:

Assume the current deadline is Friday, June 30 at 23:30 local Judge time, the
default deadline settings apply, and the following commands are issued, in
order, by one player on June 29:

(1)  set absence 29 Jun

     By default, sets a 24-hour absence from June 29 23:30 to June 30 23:30.
     Since the end of this absence is equal to the current deadline, it will
     not have any practical effect on the game.

(2)  set noabsence 29 Jun

     Clears the absence set in step (1).

(3)  set absence 30 Jun

     Sets a 24-hour absence from (Friday) June 30 23:30 to (Saturday) July 1
     23:30.  Since the next deadline under the default game settings will be
     on Monday, July 3, which is after the requested absence period, the
     absence will have no practical effect.

(4)  set absence 3 Jul to 7 Jul

     Sets an absence from Monday July 3 23:30 to Friday July 7 23:30.  When
     the current phase is processed on June 30, the program will first
     determine the next deadline in the usual way; this would be July 3 at
     23:30.  Next, the Judge will find that an absence has been set that
     includes the new deadline, so it will extend the next deadline to the end
     of that absence period, which is Friday July 7 at 23:30.

(5)  Set Absence 6 Jul to 10 Jul

     Sets an absence overlapping the one set in step (4).  When the current
     phase is processed on June 30, both absences would be triggered and the
     next deadline would be set for Monday, July 10 at 23:30.

(6)  set noabsence 6 Jul

     Clears the absence set in step (4), because it is the first one for which
     the specified date falls within the requested absence period.  You can
     only clear one absence per command.

Only a maximum of 3 (three) absences can be pending at any given time for a
single player.  Once an absence expires, however, it is removed from memory
and its "slot" becomes available for another request.  If you need to change a
previously-set absence, first use SET NOABSENCE to remove the old one, then
use SET ABSENCE to set the correct dates.  Otherwise, you will use up two of
your slots.

Each absence request will generate an informative message to the master, and
he will also see the pending future absences every time he sends a message for
the game (along with pending orders). 

If an absence request exceeds the game limit (see command "SET MAXABSENCE" in
file 'index'), a message will be sent to the Master who must manually activate
the absence for it to take effect.  Generally, the Master should do this by
using the "BECOME power" command and setting the absence for the player, as
this allows the player to cancel or change the absence later if desired.
(Also, the Master, like each player, has only three absence "slots," and might
use them all up setting absences for other players.)  The MAXABSENCE setting
is ignored if the absence is set by a Master, even using BECOME.

Each time a turn is processed, any absence that was set to end before the
current date/time is expired and removed from memory.  Then, the next deadline
is increased for each pending absence that starts at or before the new
deadline, if at least one of the following conditions is met:

 - a Master requested the absence
 - Player has a move to make and game is either StrictWait or NoPress
 - Game has press and is not StrictWait
 - The game is set to 'quiet' mode.

Note: The deadline will be adjusted to be equal to the last end_date
requested.  So, if want some time after your return to consider your move, add
a little bit accordingly.    


-----

* Diplomacy is a trademark of Avalon Hill, a division of Hasbro, Inc., all
  rights reserved.  Used with permission.

