Greetings from the Diplomacy* Adjudicator!!                 22 June 2005
Deadlines.

Unless otherwise specified, orders will be processed on the following
schedule.  These default settings may be changed by the Judgekeeper, and may
be further changed for individual games by the Moderator, or by any player in
an unmoderated game.

Move    clock 1410 min 12.00 next  71.00 grace 167.00 delay 0.50 days -MTWTF-
Retreat clock   -1 min  0.00 next  23.00 grace  71.00 delay 0.50 days -MTWTF-
Adjust  clock   -1 min  0.00 next  23.00 grace  71.00 delay 0.50 days -MTWTF-

The parameters are as follows:

clock:  If non-negative, indicates the minutes past midnight to which the
        new deadline will be set.  1410 is eleven thirty pm.  If negative,
        this parameter is ignored, and the new deadline is set at exactly
        "next" hours after the time the previous phase was processed.

min:    Indicates the minimum number of hours that can elapse between the
        previous phase and the new phase.  Thus, in the above example,
        there will be at least 12 hours after a build or retreat phase
        before the movement orders will be processed.  This parameter has
        no real use other than to prevent a runaway situation if all of
        the powers in a game were to go CD.

next:   Indicates the number of hours after the previous phase is 
        processed that the new deadline will be set.  This may be
        increased to fit into the values of the 'clock' and/or 'days'
        parameters.  In the default case, movement orders are three days
        after the previous phase.  However, because of the setting of
        days, if this falls on a weekend it will slide to Monday. (Note: the
        "next" interval is specified as 71 hours, rather than 72, because of
        the interaction between "next" and "clock".  The Judge does not
        process seasons instantaneously.  If the Spring 1901 phase is
        processed, for example, at 11:35 pm Monday, then a "next 72.0"
        setting would require the next deadline to be at 11:35 pm Thursday;
        but, since "clock" requires that the deadline be exactly at 11:30 pm,
        this would push the deadline forward to Friday.)

        In any event, the next deadline should never be earlier than the
        deadline from the most recently processed phase (thus, for example,
        if the moderator manually extends the current deadline for two weeks
        to allow for a player absence, but then the turn is processed because
        the absent player was nice enough to submit orders before he left,
        the next deadline will still be approximately two weeks away).  The
        only exception to this is if the moderator manually resets the
        deadline to an earlier time.

grace:  Indicates the number of hours the adjudicator will wait after the
        deadline expires if not everyone has gotten their orders in yet. 
        In the default case, a grace period of one week after the initial
        deadline is allowed.  When the deadline comes up, a reminder message
        will be sent to everyone who hasn't gotten their orders in and a
        notice will be sent to the other players and observers in the
        game indicating who is late.  Another reminder will be sent to
        the late parties, and a notice to all other participants, every day.

        If the game is set "NoNMR" (the default), the Judge will wait
        for orders until the end of the grace period.  Then, a notice will
        be sent to all players and observers in that game indicating
        that the late power has been abandoned.  Abandoned powers may
        be taken over by anyone not already playing a power in the
        game merely by signing on with any password.  No orders will be
        processed until the late power returns or is taken over.

        If the game is set "NMR," the power will be deemed abandoned if
        orders have not been received by 24 hours *before* the end of the
        grace period.  If you are running an NMR game, therefore, your grace
        periods must be at least 24 hours and normally should be at least 48.
        At the end of the grace period, if complete orders still have not
        been received, either from the original player or a replacement, the
        power will be declared in "Civil Disorder" and the phase will be
        processed with incomplete orders.  On subsequent phases powers marked
        CD will not be considered when deciding whether the deadline should
        slide.  When a valid SIGNON is received, the CD and/or abandoned
        status will be cleared.

        As with the deadline, the program should never set a grace period
        that is earlier than the grace period from the last processed season.

delay:  Indicates the number of hours after the last required orders
        have been received before the orders will be processed.  The
        default for this is set such that if all powers get their
        orders in before the deadline, the orders will be processed one
        half hour later.  This gives people a little time to change
        their mind after orders are submitted.

days:   Specifies which days of the week are valid for the setting of
        the initial deadline.  An uppercase letter indicates that that day of
        the week is okay.  If the letter is lowercase, then the deadline is
        delayed until after noon.  A dash indicates that the deadline cannot
        fall on that day of the week.  Unless the "StrictGrace" flag has been
        set, the grace period also will be extended to a day that is valid
        for the initial deadline.  WARNING: this parameter is an exception to
        the general rule that adjudicator commands are not case-sensitive!!

These parameters can be changed with the set command.  In moderated games
only a Master can use these commands.  For example:

        SET MOVES NEXT 48.0 DELAY 1.0
        SET BUILDS DELAY 1.0

These commands will (a) set the default move deadline to (at least) 48 hours
after the previous phase was processed, and (b) require a one-hour delay
after the last player submits (timely) move and build orders before the turn
can be processed.  These commands will not change the deadlines for the
currently pending phase.

In addition, the following commands can be used to affect the current
phase only:

   SET DEADLINE date   Sets the deadline for current phase.
   SET GRACE    date   Sets when the grace period will expire.
   SET START    date   Prevents orders being processed before "date".
   SET WAIT            (Per user, specifies that orders should not be
   SET NOWAIT          (or should be processed before the deadline.

If SET START is used with a date later than the current deadline, the
deadline will automatically be reset to the specified date.  Likewise, if
SET DEADLINE is used to extend the deadline into the future, the grace period
will automatically be extended to the appropriate interval after the new
deadline.  The reverse is not true, however; if the deadline is moved to an
earlier date, the grace period will not automatically change.

HOW THE JUDGE INTERPRETS DATES:

The Judge recognizes only a limited set of abbreviations for dates.  The 
following describes the default Judge behavior; however, if you are using a
Judge that has been modified for non-English commands, you should check
whether the Judgekeeper has changed the date abbreviations.

Dates may include one or more of the following elements:

*   A day of the week, which must be one of these three-letter abbreviations:
    "sun" "mon" "tue" "wed" "thu" "fri" "sat"

*   A month, which must be one of these three-letter abbreviations:
    "jan" "feb" "mar" "apr" "may" "jun" "jul" "aug" "sep" "oct" "nov" "dec"

*   A day of the month (a number from 1 to 31, inclusive)

*   A four-digit year

*   A numeric time using the 24-hour clock format "hh:mm" 

Case is not significant, and the "" marks are not part of the recognized
abbreviations.  In general, these elements may appear in any order, so
"SET DEADLINE Jun 15" and "SET DEADLINE 15 Jun" are equally valid; in fact,
even "SET DEADLINE Jun 23:30 15" will work.

If the day of the week is used, then the month and numeric day may not be used.
The day of the week is converted into the next date (after the current date)
that falls on that day of the week.  So, if today is a Tuesday, 
"SET DEADLINE Tue" will set the deadline one week from today.

If no year is specified, the judge will assume the you want the next occurrence
of the date you specify. If an assumption takes the date more than 120 days
into the future, the judge will return an error and ask for all of year, month,
and day to be specified. So, if it is currently December, "SET DEADLINE 10 Jan"
will advance the deadline to the next year, but if it is currently February,
the same command will return an error message.

If a day number but no month is specified, the next date with that day number
will be used.  If today is June 1, then "SET DEADLINE 15" will advance the
deadline to June 15.  If today is June 20, however, the same command will
advance the deadline to July 15.

If a month but no day is specified, the last day of the month will be
assumed.

If no month, day, or year is specified, the current day is assumed.

If no time is specified, the "clock" setting for the currently pending phase 
is assumed (if the "clock" setting is -1, then 23:30 is assumed).

All times are based on the time zone of the adjudicator.


Any SET command except for SET PASSWORD, SET WAIT and SET NOWAIT will
generate a message that will be sent to all people involved in the game
indicating that you've been mucking around with the game parameters. 
Everyone active in the game should agree before standard game settings are
adjusted.  The game moderator has discretion to extend deadlines for
particular turns upon request; the moderator ordinarily should not, however,
shorten the deadline without player consent.

Orders can be sent in anytime before the deadline.  If multiple
movement orders are received for the same unit, the most recent one
received will override the earlier one.  Attempting to build or remove
too many units during the adjustment phase will cause the earliest
received build/remove requests to be ignored.  Thus you can send in
preliminary movement or adjustment orders immediately and then send in revised
orders after you change your mind from diplomatic talks.  Beware, though, that
if everyone gets their orders in before the deadline, the orders may be
processed before you have a chance to get your revised orders in.  

If you include a "SET WAIT" command with your orders, you can avoid having
your orders processed before the deadline.  When you've decided that
your orders are final, you can send in a message with a "SET NOWAIT"
command to allow the orders to be processed as soon as the delay period
expires and everyone else has their orders in.  Remember that "SET WAIT" is
cleared when the orders are processed, so you have to explicitly set it again
(if you want it) for each phase.

If the reply mail to any order indicates that there was an error or you have
a unit that you did not supply an order for or you didn't explicitly specify
all your builds, remove or retreats, the flag indicating that your orders
have been received will not be set.  Note that all builds must be specified
or explicitly WAIVEd before the adjudicator will consider your build
orders complete, unless it is impossible to build all units (eg: five
supply centers taken in a single year or no vacant home centers).  An
error free set of orders will be required to set the "has submitted
orders" status.  If no error free orders have been received by the time
the grace period expires in an "NMR" game, the partial orders will be
processed and the CD status will be set for your power.  See the discussion
on grace periods above for more info on what happens when you miss a deadline
and taking over abandoned powers.


-----

* Diplomacy is a trademark of the Avalon Hill Game Company, Baltimore,
  Maryland, all rights reserved.  Used with permission.
