Greeting from the Diplomacy* Adjudicator                     3 February, 2003
dedsystems.

The Judge tracks player dedication in three ways. System (1) tracks all games
ever played on the Judge (unless the Judgekeeper has reset the data files). 
The other two systems, which are newer, only track turns played since they
were installed on the Judge (which varies by Judge, but was no earlier than
2002). 

(1) The original dedication system, which has been roundly criticized but is
being maintained for continuity, is based on a point system, as follows: 

    +3 points for getting your orders in on time.
    -1 point  for each "deadline missed" reminder the judge sends you.
   -50 points for becoming abandoned.
  -100 points for missing the grace period and going CD.

There is no penalty for resigning before a deadline, if you submit
complete orders *before* you resign.  However, you will continue to
receive the -1 point penalty every day that your power remains
abandoned after the deadline.  If your power goes CD after you've
resigned without anyone else taking the power over, you will receive
the CD penalty as well (this is to discourage you from resigning when
you're down to a few units which could be used to affect the final
outcome of the game, but you've just lost interest).  Your dedication
rating is displayed by the 'LIST' command.

(2) The "ontime ratio" system. In this system players are rated 
based on what percentage of their total turns they have submitted on
time. We use the following formula:

              Turns Submitted Ontime
Rating  =    ------------------------
                  Total turns due

Therefore each player has a rating between 0.0 and 1.0, with higher rankings
being better than lower ones. 

(3) The "resignation ratio" system, which compares the number of games a
player has resigned from to the number he has started. We use the following
formula:

                           Resignations
Rating =    ----------------------------------------------
            Games started + abandoned positions taken over

Again ratings range from 0.0 to 1.0, but in this case lower ratings (fewer
resignations) are preferable. 

GMs or others creating games can restrict who is eligible to sign on to the
game using one or more of the following commands:

    SET DEDICATION minimum
        Anyone whose dedication rating is less than minimum will not be
        able to join the game.  If this is set to 0 or any positive number,
        a newly registered player (whose dedication is zero) will be unable
        to play.  The default value is -10000.

    SET ONTIMERAT minimum
        Anyone whose ontime ratio is less than minimum will not be able to
        join the game.  This will not affect a newly registered player,
        since that player by definition has a "perfect" ratio (0/0).

    SET RESRAT maximum
        Anyone whose resignation ratio is greater than maximum will not be
        able to join the game. This will not affect a newly registered
        player, since that player by definition has a "perfect" ratio (0/0).

The ONTIMERAT and RESRAT settings are inoperative unless explicitly set by 
the moderator.

The command "INFOPLAYER address" may be used to retrieve the ratings of any
registered user of the Judge, by specifying an email address.  Also, the
command "GET DEDICATION" returns exactly the same information as INFOPLAYER
for the email address of the user sending the command.


----

* Diplomacy is a trademark of Avalon Hill, a division of Hasbro, Inc. Used
with permission.
