Greetings from the Diplomacy* Adjudicator!!                31 January 1994.
form.

When involved in a game of Diplomacy it is best if all the players in a
game are unique.  Puppet powers tend to spoil the game for the other
players.  Some games are designated as "all players from different
sites" or "all players from the same site" to keep the balance from
becoming too badly tipped if contact between two players is too easy or
too hard.  It is important for the judge to know who you are in order
to determine if you are right for a particular game.  Please fill out
the following registration form by replacing the example text after the
colons with proper information and return it to the judge.  Name, phone
and site are required.  You should also list at least one email address
that won't change.

-------  Cut here  -------
REGISTER
Name:      Aretha Holly
Phone:     (505) 555-5555
Site:      University of Hodunk
Address:   1515 St. Claws Lane, Kris Mass
Country:   USA
Timezone:  Eastern
Email:     user@host.domain.edu, user@host.bitnet, host2!host1!user
Level:     Novice, Amateur, Intermediate, Advanced or Expert
Birthdate: Dec 25, 1907
Sex:       Female
Package:   Yes
END
-----

You can query the database of people by sending a "whois user" request
to the judge.  You may update this information at any time by sending
in a new registration form.  Note that you can use the information
returned by the whois command as a template by throwing a REGISTER line
in front, an END line on the end, changing the other information and
sending it back to the judge.  Please try to spell your site name the
same way other players may have spelled it.  Feel free to add additional
information by making up your own keywords, but keep it under half a page.  

The judge recognizes you by the return address in electronic mail that
you send in.  If you use multiple accounts, you can tell the judge that
another return address should be considered the same person by sending
an "IamAlso address" command from the new account, where "address" is
one of the electronic mail addresses that you listed on your Email line
when you last registered.

There are three strict levels the judge recognizes, as well as two
broader ranges, that you can use in the Level: field.  Amateur is
interpreted as non-Expert, and Advanced is interpreted as non-Novice.
Game Masters can restrict games to certain ability levels, so please
try to be as honest and as accurate as you can when ranking yourself.
Note that this refers to your ability to play the game of Diplomacy,
not your ability to use the judge.  It is perfectly acceptable to
register for the first time as an Expert, if you are truely skilled
at the game.  Likewise, no matter how much you may know about using
the judge, if you have never gotten a power over six supply centers, 
you should register as a Novice.

The 'Package:  Yes/No' line tells the Judge whether to automatically
forward the 'new users package' of files to you.  If you are registering
with your first Judge, you are strongly encouraged to set this to 'Yes'
in order to receive all the information that beginning Judge players
need.  If you are registering with more than one Judge, of course, you
do not need to receive multiple copies of these files, although you
should be aware that each Judge Keeper (the person responsible for each
Diplomacy Judge site) might add additional files to the 'package' on
his Judge, such as a file stating a personal policy that he follows.
If the 'Package:' line is omitted from your registration, then the default
policy for that Judge is followed for sending or not sending the package
of files; each Judge Keeper can set the default to send or to not send
the package to new users on his system.  If the package is not sent,
either by your specific request or the Judge Keeper's default policy, you
will still be reminded of the 'get package' command should you choose to
request the files later.

Thank you for your cooperation.
