Greetings from the Diplomacy* Adjudicator!!                 10 February, 2003
guide.


                    The Newbie's Quick Guide to the Judge**

This guide is designed to get you started quickly on the Diplomacy
Adjudicator, better known as "the Judge."

This is not a guide to playing the game of Diplomacy.  If you are unfamiliar
with Diplomacy, you may want to check out the Diplomatic Pouch Home Page at:
http://www.diplom.org/ 

     Contents
     --------

Step 1: What's This "Judge" Anyway?
Step 2: Getting Judge Files
Step 3: Registering with a Judge
Step 4: Getting a List of Openings
Step 5: Understanding a Game Listing
Step 6: Observing a Game (optional)
Step 7: Signing on to a Forming Game
Step 8: Signing on to a Game as a Replacement
Step 9: Sending Press
Step 10a: Submitting Moves (for a movement phase)
Step 10b: Submitting Moves (for a retreat phase)
Step 10c: Submitting Moves (for a builds/removals phase)
Step 11: Understanding Error Flags
Step 12: Understanding Promptness


     Step 1) What's This "Judge" Anyway?

Since this is the short guide, I'll give a short answer: the Judge is a
software program that manages Diplomacy games.  It keeps track of the
players, enforces deadlines, handles "press" or messages between players,
accepts and adjudicates orders, and sends out the results.  The basic Judge
software was originally written by Ken Lowe, and has been modified by many
others over the years.  (Thus, you'll often see people refer to the "Ken Lowe 
Judges.")

The Ken Lowe Judges communicate with players solely by email.  Don't ask
"where is the web page for Judge So-and-So?" There isn't one! (Well, some
Judges do have associated web pages that provide some information about the
Judge, but you can't use these pages to play Diplomacy.)  You send emails to
the Judge, and the Judge sends emails to you.  Since the Judge is a computer
program, not a person, it only understands specific commands typed in a
particular format.  If you're getting error messages from the Judge and you
think you typed everything correctly, the most likely cause is your email
program.  Make sure it is set to send "Plain Text" or ASCII, and not HTML or
"Rich Text" or "formatted text." For more about error messages, see Step 11.

Any time you send an email to the Judge, you should receive a reply.  If the
Judge and your own email service are both working right, this should come
back within a matter of seconds or minutes, but if not, be a little patient.  
Incidentally, the Judges don't read the subject line of emails; you can put
anything you want there.  Also, the Judges normally don't care whether you
type in UPPER or lower case (there is one obscure exception you won't need to
worry about unless you decide to become a game moderator).

     Step 2) Getting Judge Files

Send an email to the Judge, and in the body of your message, type the words:
 
     get package

You'll get a series of files that you should print and read later.  (If you
haven't gotten them already!)  Or, you can skip to Step 3 and include the
following line in your registration form, which will do the same thing:

     package: yes

By the way, if the Judge is unresponsive, just wait.  Don't keep sending
repeated emails to a Judge that is down; when it comes back up, it will flood
your mailbox with replies!

     Step 3) Registering

Each Judge is effectively an island unto itself.  While they are basically
similar, each is running a slightly different version of the Judge software
so there is a little variation among them (some of the later versions support
more variants and have a few bugs ironed out), but for the most part they are
just different places to play the same game.  Since Diplomacy players are a
fairly addictive type, many people play games on several Judges just in
case one needs to go down for an extended period of time.  By playing on
multiple Judges, you can hedge your risk of losing a lot of games with one
freak electrical storm.  Plus, by not being limited to one or two Judges, you
get more options when you're looking for a new game by searching the entire
list of open games (I will explain this below, in Step 4: Getting a List of
Openings).

The easiest way to register is to use the Diplomacy Pouch registration page:

     http://devel.diplom.org/Email/registration.html

This allows players with web access to register for any Judge desired (one
Judge at a time) in one convenient step.  Be sure to come back here when
you're done, though, because there is more to learn! 

If you want to play games on multiple Judges you will have to register with
each one.  The Judges do not share registration information.  This includes
dedication rating (I will briefly explain dedication below, in Step 12:
Understanding Promptness) which attempts to measure how consistently prompt
you are on all games on an individual Judge.

The other way to register is by email.  Many people find it convenient to
register with all the Judges at once by sending out a blanket email (the
registration form is identical).  So, if you wish to do this, simply include
more than one address in the TO: field when you register in the step we're
about to undertake.  If you are unsure if you want to register with many
Judges, just pick one for now, and you can always register at the others
later.

To register by email:

Copy the registration form below (either cut and paste it or retype it).  Do
not change the first and last lines (REGISTER and END), or the first word on
each line (up to and including the : symbol).  _DO_ change everything else to
reflect your personal information.

Send it to the Judge, or to as many as you wish if you are registering at
more than one Judge.

Currently, the default House Rules require that your registration include, at
a minimum, the Name (first and last), Email, Level, Address (city and state
only), and Country fields.  Some GMs may have other requirements in their
particular house rules.  If you register as Charles V. Habsburg or put
other obviously phony information in your registration, or leave out the
required fields, you very likely will not be permitted to play on that Judge.
The Judge Keepers are sick and tired of phony registrations.  The Judge
Keepers are volunteers, and it's not nice to make their lives more
complicated than they already are.

REGISTER
Name:      Charles V. Habsburg             (CHANGE THIS OR FACE CONSEQUENCES)
Phone:     (510) 555-1212                  (CHANGE THIS)
Site:      Holy Roman Empire (Don't put "Home" here; your best bet is to put
                         the name of your school, company, or some other
                         organization you are affiliated with)
Address:   Monastery of San Geronimo de Yuste, Estremadura
Country:   Spain
Email:     charles.v.habsburg@holy.roman.empire
Level:     Novice, Intermediate or Expert  (PICK ONLY ONE!!!)
Birthdate: February 24, 1500
Sex:       Male
END

Your "Level" should reflect your diplomacy skills, not your Judge skills.
Don't submit this without picking one and only one level.  We are sick of
seeing people who claim to be Charles the Fifth and "Novice, Intermediate or
Expert." Your registration will eventually be deleted (and you may have
problems) unless you submit accurate info.

     Step 4) Getting a List of games

Take a look at the Openings List on the Diplomacy Pouch site:

     http://www.diplom.org/openings/

If for some reason, the www.diplom.org system is down, each individual Judge
can always give you a list of all its public games (with or without
openings).  Send an email to the Judge, and in the body type:

     list

The long file you get back will list all the public games on the Judge that
you have chosen to start with.

Another way to find a game to join is to put your name on the Diplomacy Pouch
Game Queue.  Go to:

     http://www.diplom.org/DP-cgi/setqueue

You can sign up to join a standard game for "newbies," or a no-press game, or
to standby for a replacement position.  Be prepared to wait anywhere from a
few days to a few weeks once your name is on the queue before you get emailed
to join a game.

     Step 5) Understanding the List of Games

Look at this sample game listing:

andy  S1901M Standard, Gunboat, 48 hrs, Moderated (andyhre),Press:W-P-.
Judge newcomer game!
Forming: 1 more players needed.

Most of the crucial information is on the first line.  The game name is
"andy."  The season is Spring 1901 (movement phase).  The Variant is standard 
Diplomacy (Standard) but the names of the actual people playing each country
are kept secret (Gunboat).  Deadlines occur every 48 hours.  Andyhre is the
moderator who assists the Judge's automated processes.  The press setting
determines how players can communicate with each other.  In this case, the
setting "W-P-" means the game is White/Partial, so the country of origin of
each letter is revealed (white), so that you cannot send anonymous (or even
better, forged) message, and you may send letters to one or more players
without sending the letter to everyone (partial).  If the press setting is
"----" then no messages at all may be passed between players.  See Step 9 for
more on press.

     Step 6) Observing a game

This is optional.  Some newcomers find observing a game to be a good way to
get their feet wet.  Others wish to dive right in.  If you prefer total
immersion, please skip to Step 7.  Otherwise, read on.

Pick a game (I'll use andy).  Pick a password (I'll use password, but you
should use some other word).  Send the equivalent of this message to your
favorite Judge:

     signon oandy password
     signoff

The first word is always signon (not singon or sign on).  The second is the
letter "o" for observer and then the game name combined.  The third should be
your password.  The Judge will reply saying you are accepted (if you typed it
right) and from now on you'll receive all broadcast press and game results.
But you won't see any of the private messages sent between players.

Note: Instead of saying "signon ogamename password" you can also say "observe
gamename password".  I mention this because the DEAC Judge, which uses German
translations, allows you to use the second format but not the first [it uses
"Z" instead of "O" (Zuschauer rather than Observer) so the command is signon
zgamename password] and thus it may be safer to learn this second format if
you ever have to interact with a non-English Judge.  The other option is to
learn the word for observe in any language for which there is a Judge!

HINT FOR OBSERVING: Try to find a game without partial press (the third
character of the press code is a dash, not a P).  These games are more fun to
observe because the players must broadcast to communicate.

     Step 7) Signing on to a forming game as a player

So you want to join the game andy as a player and start the ball rolling.
You need to sign on and give the Judge your list of preferences, as follows:

     signon ?andy password standard gunboat
     set preference AEFGIRT
     signoff

Let's examine each element of this message:

     signon ?andy

This command is similar to joining as an observer except you use "?" as the
first character of the 2nd word (instead of "o") combined with the game name.

     password

Pick an easily remembered word, but don't use "password"!!
 
     standard gunboat 

After your password, you must enter the name of the variant or the Judge will
reject your request (with a friendly note explaining why).  The word
"standard" is optional, however.  The name of the variant appears in the game
listing (which you can get with the command "list andy").

     set preference AEFGIRT 

The 3rd word in the preference line should reflect your actual preference for
powers (a more typical one might be GFERTIA if you like playing a western
power).  In my example, I've told the Judge my first choice is Austria (the
"A") then England (the "E") then France, etc.  If you do not set a
preference, you will be assigned a power randomly from those not requested by
the other players.  You can also put some powers in brackets if you don't
care which one you get within that group; for example, if you like Eastern
powers better than Western, and hate Italy, you could put [ART][EFG]I.  In my
experience, omitting your list of preferences will mean you will play Austria
or Italy.

     signoff

This command is technically optional, but you should treat it as absolutely
necessary!  It tells the Judge, "this is the end of the commands in this
message, don't read anything else."  This is necessary because many mail
programs will add a signature, an advertisement, or other information to the
body of your message, and if the Judge tries to process this text, it will
lead to error messages.  The worst problems are caused by mail clients that
insist on formatting messages as HTML or MIME attachments; these stick all
kinds of weird characters into the body where the Judge is just expecting to
find plain text.  The "signoff" command tells the Judge to ignore anything
that comes after your commands, and avoids most problems related to mail
formatting.

     Step 8) Signing on as a replacement

It is sometimes easier to find a stalled game than a new game forming, so be
prepared to take over a power whose player has quit.  Also, taking a "mercy"
position can be a good way to get your feet wet with the Judge without having
to worry about actually winning!  Look at this sample listing:

jenifer S1903R  Standard, Gunboat, 48 hrs, Moderated (andyhre), Press:W-P-.
Openings: Austria (3/3)

You decide to learn the Judge by helping these players finish their game (by
taking over the 3-unit Austria).  You should get a detailed listing of the
game (send "list jenifer" to the Judge) to make sure the game is not for
Albanians-only or some such restriction, and you should consider sending an
email to the person listed as the GM to make sure the power is really
abandoned.  Assuming you qualify, type:

     signon ajenifer password standard gunboat
     signoff

In the 2nd word, you now replace "?" with "a" since you know for a fact which
country (a=Austria) is available.

If the game accepts you (it might reject you if it has a flag that prevents
new players from joining, or if someone else grabbed the position before you
did), you'll be told that you've been allowed to take over the position, and
you'll be given a deadline for moves.  Now you just need to send some press
and enter your moves!

     Step 9) Sending Press

There are two basic types of press, partials (sent to one or more individual
players) and broadcasts (sent to everyone in the game at once).

     Broadcast press

To send a broadcast in the game jenifer, type:

     signon ajenifer password
     broadcast
     Hey, the New Austria will conquer you all ...
     (or whatever message you wish)
     Your press can be as many lines long as you need.
     endpress
     signoff

Two notes: (1) Once you've joined the game, you no longer need to enter the
variant information when you sign on.  (2) Be careful typing endpress as one
word all by itself on a line or else you may end up sending more information
than you wish.  You have been warned.

     Partial press

Now say you want to write to Russia and Turkey and tell them how great you
are:

     signon ajenifer password
     press to RT
     Austria will conquer you both
     endpress
     signoff

The key is line 2.  "RT" means Russia and Turkey.  Had you wanted just Italy,
you'd type "press to I".  Also, anything between the press line and endpress
line will be sent, so please remember to type endpress (not end press or
endpres)!

This is also a good time to write to the master and tell her/him you are a
newbie:

     signon ajenifer password
     press to M
     Austria is a clueless newbie.  Thanks for letting me play.
     endpress
     signoff

(The M in Press to M stands for Master.  Typing Press to GM (don't do this)
will send a copy to both Germany and the Master.) 

By the way, the above are _not_ examples of good press! The game is called
"Diplomacy," after all, and you may want to be a little more diplomatic in
your own writings.

     Step 10a) Submitting Moves

Here is a sample of how you'd enter moves for Austria:

     signon ajenifer password
     A Vie-Gal
     A Bud S A Vie-Gal
     F Tri-Alb
     signoff

Note how the moves follow standard Diplomacy syntax.  Vienna is moving to
Galicia with support from Budapest, and Trieste is taking Albania.  If this
syntax does not make sense to you, you need to learn how to play Diplomacy,
which is not the purpose of this document.  The Judge accepts 3-letter
abbreviations for provinces where possible, but you can always enter the full
name.  For some provinces, like Liverpool and Livonia, you need to use other
abbreviations (Lpl and Lvn, respectively).  You can learn the legal
abbreviations by requesting "get map" from the Judge.  You can also use a
variety of other symbols for move commands, like -> or the word "moves" or
the letter "m", and you can omit the "army" and "fleet" designations if you
want; the Judge will fill them in for you (at least in standard games).

Convoy orders are a little tricky.  The syntax for fleets is the same as you
are used to from face-to-face games:  "F Nth C A Lon-Nwy", for example.  But
the army orders have a special syntax (because trying to program the Judge to
figure out all the possible convoy routes on its own turns out to be
extremely complicated): you have to order the army to pass through each sea
space along the route.  In the above example, you have to write

     A Lon-Nth-Nwy

Just writing "A Lon-Nwy" will give you a very confusing error message, and
might cause you to get marked as "late" when you really weren't.  You can use
the same syntax for more complicated convoys, such as "A Tun-Ion-Eas-Smy", as
long as each of the fleets you name is in place and actually gives the
corresponding convoy order.

If you ever are uncertain where the units are, simply list the game (send
"list jenifer" to the Judge) and you'll get the scoop on each piece's
location.
  
     Step 10b) Submitting Retreats

Sadly, everyone must retreat at some time or other.  Retreat syntax mirrors
moves, so a Fleet retreating from Greece to Albania would be ordered like
this: 

     signon ajenifer password
     F Gre - Alb
     signoff

If you'd rather disband the unit for strategic reasons, you'd say:

     signon ajenifer password
     F Gre Disband
     signoff

"Disband F Gre" won't work; the name of the unit has to come first for
retreats.

     Step 10c) Submitting Builds/Removals

The syntax for adjustments varies somewhat from that used for moves and
retreats.  You have to list the action (build or remove) before the province,
so to build an army in Vienna, type:

     signon ajenifer password
     Build A Vie
     signoff

If faced with the need to remove a unit, say in Bohemia, you'd type:

     signon ajenifer password
     Remove A Boh
     signoff

Note that the syntax for a disbandment during a retreat (A Boh Disband)
differs from a removal during the adjustment phase (Remove A Boh).  This can
cause some confusion at first.

If you have more than one build or removal to make, put each one on a
separate line.

     Step 11) Understanding Error Flags

When the Judge replies to your emails, especially when you submit your moves,
always check to see if it has found any errors.  A typical error comes from
confusing a fleet with an army.  A stray word can also cause this (like
typing singoff).  If you make any sort of error when you submit moves, even
if all of your moves are accepted, you will get an error message from the
Judge saying an error was (or several errors were) encountered.  Do not
ignore this, even if your moves look 100% correct.  If the Judge says there
is an error, you must clear the error flag or your moves will not be
processed.

To clear a flag, just signon and signoff, like this:

     signon ajenifer password
     signoff

This sounds basic, but every new player I know has been late (and one was
kicked out) simply from having an uncorrected error flag.  Of course, if the
error caused an order to be ignored, you should resubmit the order correctly
in addition to merely clearing the error flag.

     Step 12) Understanding Promptness

Every player has a dedication rating.  Every turn has a deadline and a grace
period.  Get moves in on-time, and your dedication rating goes up.  Miss the
deadline and your dedication rating goes down.  Miss the grace period, and
your rating goes WAY down, and your position may be taken over by someone
else!!  The Judges now keep track of how often you miss deadlines, and how
many games you drop out of, and Masters can use these statistics to limit who
is eligible to play in their games.  So ALWAYS be on-time.  Note also, that
even if you are on-time, but you have an error flag as mentioned above, you
will still be considered late and you still risk being kicked out at the end
of the grace period, so always check your Judge replies carefully.

For more details on reading a game listing and understanding when the
deadlines will fall, you should send "get deadline" to the Judge.  The
following is a quick introduction to how deadlines work:

When you list out a game you will see the game's deadline parameters, which
will look something like this:

The parameters for 'bob' are as follows:
  Move    clock  660 min 12.00 next  72.00 grace  48.00 delay 0.25 days -MTWTF-
  Retreat clock  660 min  0.00 next  24.00 grace  24.00 delay 0.25 days -MTWTF-
  Adjust  clock  660 min  0.00 next  24.00 grace  24.00 delay 0.25 days -MTWTF-

There are three sets of parameters (for Move, Retreat, and Adjust phases). 
In each set you will see a list of parameter names with each one followed by
a value (it gets confusing, so remember the value comes after the name).  The
deadline settings are as follows:

Clock 

No matter what else, the deadlines in this game will always fall at 660
minutes after midnight (11am). A more typical setting, by the way, is "clock
1410", which is 11:30 pm. Whatever it says here, it is minutes after midnight
in whatever time zone the Judge uses.

If you see a -1, it means the deadline (for that phase) can fall at any time
of day.

Min 

Regardless of how soon moves are submitted, this game will not process for at
least twelve hours, but during retreats and adjustments, there is no minimum
before adjudication.  Yes, that's right, the Judge will _not_ wait for the
deadline (unless you tell it to, using "SET WAIT"); it will process orders as
soon as the Min time has passed and all players have submitted orders.

Next 

NEXT is the most important setting. This game has move deadlines every 72
hours and retreats/adjustments one day after the moves/retreat process.
When people say a game is fast or slow, they mean it has a small or large
NEXT setting.  The deadlines can be longer than these settings (to advance
the deadline due to the Clock or Days settings), but never shorter, unless
the Master changes it manually.
 
Grace

If you are late (Don't be!), you'll have this many hours before you get
kicked out of the game.

Delay 

If you are the last to enter moves, you'll have this many hours to change
your mind before the judge processes, unless someone has asked the judge to
wait for the deadline (SET WAIT).  Typically, you get 30 minutes (0.5 hours).
 
Days

The deadlines will only fall on the days listed. A small letter means no
morning deadlines.  (Yes, this is the one obscure exception in which the
Judge treats CAPITAL and small letters differently!)

     Conclusion

You should be set for basic Judge play now.  For more detail, read the Judge
files you got in Step 2 (you printed them out like I told you, yes?).
Experiment a little as well.  The worst that can happen is you can be
eliminated by the end of 1902, but you will learn a lot and you will have
cool stories to tell afterwards.  Have fun and good luck!

-----

*  Diplomacy is a trademark of Avalon Hill, a division of Hasbro, Inc., all
   rights reserved.  Used with permission.

** Adapted by Russ Blau from material originally written by Andy Schwarz.
