Greetings from the Diplomacy* Adjudicator!!                        12 May, 2003
info.

This message is generated by the Diplomacy Adjudicator, an automated system
for moderating games of Diplomacy and its variants.

You interact with the Adjudicator entirely through email communication; you
send mail messages to the Adjudicator, and it sends mail messages back to you
(like this one).  It is highly recommended that you use a mail program or
system that allows you to send plain-text messages (also known as ASCII or
Unformatted Text in some software), as the Judge cannot process any messages
that contain HTML tags, MIME encoding, or other non-text commands.  (See
http://www.expita.com/nomime.html for how to send plain-text messages using
most common e-mail services and software.)

This file is an introduction to basic use of the Judge.  (It is not a guide to
how to play Diplomacy.)  The best source for general information on-line is
The Diplomatic Pouch, http://www.diplom.org/  The Online Resources section
includes strategy advice, maps, links to other sites, and much, much more.
Within the Online Resources section is a Judge Resources page that includes
many Judge help files and other information.

A step-by-step guide for new players can be obtained by putting the command
"GET GUIDE" in the body of an e-mail to the Judge.  (If you got this "info"
file as part of the "new user package," then you should have a received a copy
of the Newbie's Guide, too.)

A far more thorough document for more experienced users, or those who just
like to know all the details, is the Judge User's Manual, available at
http://members.cox.net/russblau/ 

Here are a few commonly-used terms that you should be familiar with:

    JUDGE - Another name for the Diplomacy Adjudicator computer program.

    JUDGEKEEPER - (Also "administrator") - A human being who administers the
        Judge software.

    MASTER - (Also "moderator") - A human being, not necessarily the same
        person as the Judgekeeper, who is in charge of a particular game
        being played on the Judge.

To communicate with the Judge you should send it a mail message in the following format:

    command1
    command2
      ...
    SIGNOFF

These commands go in the body of the message, one on each line.  The Judge
does not read the subject line of your message, so you can put whatever you
want there.  (Your subject line will be included in the subject of the Judge's
response, however, so you can use it to identify messages.)  The "SIGNOFF"
line is highly recommended, because without it the Judge will continue to try
to process any text it finds in the message, including signature lines and
formatting codes.

Commands can be in either upper- or lower-case, or mixed; it doesn't matter.
In the help files, however, CAPITAL LETTERS are used to indicate commands that
you must type exactly as shown; lower-case is used to show where you insert
your own information.

You can also receive help files directly from the Judge.  If you asked for the
"package" when you registered, then you should already have received a group
of these files.  If not, you can request files individually, or request the
entire package.  The command to retrieve files is "GET" followed by the name
of the file.  To get the entire package, put the following command in a mail
message to the Judge:

      GET PACKAGE

To get a specific file called 'foo', send the command

      GET foo

Following is a partial list of files that are available:

    info:        This text.
  % guide:       A longer, friendlier "newbie's guide" to using the Judge.
    index:       An alphabetical summary of all commands.
  % syntax:      Syntax for submitting orders.
  % deadlines:   Policies on deadline computations and how to set them.
  % house.rules: Default rules for all games played on the Judge.
  % rules:       House rules for the standard variant of Diplomacy.
  % press:       Information on sending broadcast/press messages.
    info.xxx:    Additional information for nonstandard variant xxx.
    map:         The province abbreviations and connections (cryptic).
    map.xxx:     The same for nonstandard variant xxx.
    master:      Information for people who are game masters/moderators.
    flist:       A list of all files available with sizes.

The files marked with % above are "must" reading before you can really get
started (the % is a marker referring you to this footnote, don't include it in
the GET command).

Any user can also send the following commands to the Judge:

    HELP              To get this text (no other commands will be processed).
    VERSION           To see the current software version and some additional
                      information about the Judge.
    REGISTER ... END  To register yourself (see below).
    IAMALSO address   To register a new email address (see below).
    LIST [game]       To get the status of the specified game or all games.
    MAP game          To get a postscript map of the game status.
    HISTORY game      To get a copy of recent moves and notices in the
                      specified game (by default, one week's worth).
    SUMMARY game      To get a more abbreviated report of the specified game.
    WHOIS addr        To get the user registration information for the player
                      whose e-mail address is specified.
    INFOPLAYER addr   To get a report of the timeliness and abandonment
                      history of the player whose e-mail address is
                      specified.

To do anything beyond this, you must be a registered user.  There are two
ways to register:
 
(1) on the World-Wide Web at http://devel.diplom.org/Email/registration.html

(2) by mail to the Judge.  To use this method, send a message containing the
    command:

    GET FORM

This will get you a message explaining the registration process in detail, and
the specific format you use in your registration message.  The Judgekeeper
reserves the right to ban any player who provides false or incomplete
registration information.

The Judge recognizes you by the return address in electronic mail that you
send in.  If you use multiple accounts, you can tell the judge to add a new
address to your existing registration.  Send a message *from* the new address
containing an "IAMALSO old_address" command, where old_address is an address
that you have already registered with the Judge.  This command only links your
new address to your existing registration; it does _not_ change the default
address returned by the "WHOIS" command (see the next paragraph to change
that), and it does _not_ change the address to which your game reports are
sent (use the "SET ADDRESS" command to change that on a game-by-game basis).

You may update your registration information at any time by sending in a new
registration form.  Note that you can use the information returned by the
WHOIS command as a template by throwing a REGISTER line in front, an END line
on the end, changing the other information and sending it back to the judge.
Please try to spell your site name the same way other players may have spelled
it.  Feel free to add additional information by making up your own keywords,
but keep it under half a page.

The basic method of sending orders for a particular game is to send a mail
message to the Judge that begins with the following command:

    SIGNON pxxxx password

Where 'p' is the identifier of the power you have been assigned and 'xxxx' is
the name of the game you are participating in.  The power identifier is
usually the first letter of the power unless there are conflicts in which case
it might be the second letter.  For example in the Youngstown variant, India's
identifier is "N" since Italy uses "I".  To enter a game that is forming, use:

    SIGNON ? password               To enter the next available game
or  SIGNON ?xxxx password [variant] Specifying the name of the game you want
or  CREATE ?xxxx password [variant] To create a new game and sign on
or  OBSERVE xxxx password           To just get the reports for a game

Your password will be set to the password you specify.  Note that if you use
the third form above, other players wishing to enter that game will have to
use the second form.

Immediately after the initial signon you should specify your preference of
what powers you would like to be assigned with the command:

    SET PREFERENCE list

where the list is a sequence of the power identifier letters.  To give a set
of powers equal weighting, enclose them in parenthesis or square brackets.
Thus: "SET PREFERENCE f[ergti]a" would indicate that you really want France
and really don't want Austria, but you don't care about which of the others
you are assigned if you can't have France.

To take over a power that has become abandoned, you merely sign on with:

    SIGNON pxxxx password [variant]

where 'p' is the identifier of the power you are attempting to take over.

You can then put the orders for your units on the following lines of the
message.

Other commands that you can put after the SIGNON command as a player are:

    SET PASSWORD new_password     To change your password
    SET ADDRESS [reply_address]   To change where your reports go
    LIST                          To get a status of the game
    BROADCAST [options]           To send following lines as press message.
    PRESS [options]               Ditto.  Use "GET PRESS" for options.
    SET DRAW                      To agree to participate in a draw.
    SET CONC p                    To concede the game to the largest power.
    PHASE season year phase       To specify future orders
    CLEAR                         To clear pending orders
    RESIGN                        To withdraw from the game
    SIGNOFF                       To indicate the end of useful text

Signing onto another player's power without his permission is a serious
offense.  Punishable by being staked out in the hot sun with red ants placed
in your ears and nostrils.  Although Diplomacy is based on treachery and
lying, this falls under the category of "spoofing the game master" which is
not allowed.  If another player accidentally sends you his password, you are
required by honor to report this to the player and not take advantage of it.
By signing onto the other player's power, the judge will send you a copy of
his submitted orders, but the other player will get a copy of this message and
an alarm message will also be sent to the judge's administrator.

In addition to the standard variant, supported nonstandard variants include:

    1898:        Each player starts with only one of his home centers.
    Aberration:  A nine-player variant on a modified map.
    Asia:        Based on a map of Asia.
    Blind:       The positions of the other players' units are hidden.
    Britain:     England starts with six armies.
    Chaos:       A 34 player variant in which each player gets one center.
    Chromatic:   Five Powers vie for control of a rainbow coloured map.
    Colonial:    A seven-power variant based on a map of Asia.
    Crowded:     Eleven players occupy all 35 centers at game start.
    Duplex:      Some (or all) players control more than one power.
    Fleet_Rome:  Italy starts with a fleet rather than an army in Rome.
    Gunboat:     The identities of the other players are kept secret.
    Hundred:     A three-player game based on the Hundred Years' War.
    Layered:     A variant played on two parallel, connected maps.
    Loeb9:       Danny Loeb's 9 player variant including Spain and Norway.
    Machiavelli: Uses money to support units and/or bribe others' units.
    Milan:       Italy is slightly redesigned and has a home centre in Milan.
    Modern:      Based in modern Europe, with 11 powers.
    Pure:        Each power starts with one army on a map of seven provinces.
    Rootz:       Each player controls a power on each of two linked maps.
    Shift_left:  ) Both of these variants use the standard map, but each 
    Shift_right: ) power's units start in another power's home centers.
    Shorthand:   A special type of code for sending press messages.
    Wings:       A third unit, the wing, can be used. 
    Wraparound:  Played on a modified map that wraps around at the edges.
    Youngstown:  A fairly common map variant including Asia.

Be sure to read the info.variant file for these variants before signing on.
The Machiavelli variant is more complex than standard Diplomacy and has its
own rules file 'rules.machiavelli' which you must read before playing as well.
There are PostScript maps available for some of the variants:

    machiavelli.ps  Machiavelli variant.
    modern.ps:      Modern variant.

These files are fairly large.  A better way of getting software-based maps is
by checking the Online Resources section of the Diplomacy Pouch website,
http://www.diplom.org/

To sign on to a nonstandard variant before it starts or to take over a power
in a nonstandard variant you must specify the variant name on the SIGNON
command.  This is to ensure that you know what you're getting yourself into.
If anyone would like to see the judge support other variants, please send your
suggestions to the judge-request address.

Thank you for your cooperation.

-----

* Diplomacy is a trademark of the Avalon Hill Game Company, Baltimore,
  Maryland, all rights reserved.  Used with permission.
