Greetings from the Diplomacy* Adjudicator!!                 27 February, 2003
master

Note: see file 'index' for a fuller list of available commands, and an
      explanation of the syntax conventions used in this document.

By default, when you create a game, the Judge registers you as a player in
that game.  To become a Master, you must be signed on as the only
player and then use the "BECOME MASTER" command.  Thus, to create a new
Youngstown variant game called "older" with yourself as Master, send the
following text to the judge:

   CREATE ?older <password> youngstown
   BECOME MASTER

The Judgekeeper can change the default setting so that the person who
creates the game automatically becomes Master.  If this setting is in effect,
you can skip the BECOME command.

If anyone else is signed on to the game you will not be allowed to become
Master this way. However, a game can have two or more Masters. If you wish to
relinquish your Master slot to another person, or have a co-master, have that
person sign on as an Observer, and then use the PROMOTE command to make that
person a Master.  After that is done, you can safely EJECT yourself without
interrupting the game.

If you wish to become the Master for an existing game that has other players
and/or observers signed on you should ask the Master to follow the PROMOTE
procedure; if there is no existing Master, then contact the administrator of
the adjudicator (the "Judgekeeper").

To set up a "private" game you can use the "SET NOLIST" command immediately
after creating the game:

   CREATE ?older <password> youngstown
   SET NOLIST
   BECOME MASTER

The "NOLIST" setting will prevent any announcements about the game being
distributed to anyone not signed onto the game.  People can still use the
"LIST older" command to get a status of the game, but a "LIST" command
that lists all current games will not display this game.  People cannot
find out about the game unless they've been told.  This is useful for
games that you want to set up as "by invitation only".  Once the invited
players have signed on and powers have been assigned you can use the "SET
LIST" command to allow other people to begin seeing the game.  Note that
you don't have to be the Master in such a game, it could be unmoderated
with you as a player if you wish.  The point demonstrated here is that
the "SET NOLIST" must appear before the "BECOME MASTER" or before another
player signs on since either of those actions would generate an
announcement on a "listed" game.  (On many judges, however, "NoList" is the
default for newly-created games.)

Once you have become the Master for a game you can sign on to your game using
the "m<name>" syntax and use the following commands:

   BECOME power
     This allows you to submit commands for a particular power if, for
     example, the player for that power gets disconnected from the network
     and calls you on the phone to give you orders.  You can also submit
     other commands for this player; for example, you could submit a draw 
     vote for a reluctant player after following the "draw clock" house rule.

     Note that you can only use one "BECOME" command per mail message.
     (Otherwise the first player whose identity you have assumed could see
     the commands you were issuing for the second player.)  Likewise, no
     other Master-only commands will be processed following a "BECOME"
     command; all commands will be interpreted as if they came from the
     power, not from the Master.  The "power" name may be abbreviated or
     spelled out in full.

     The player for "power" will receive a message from the Judge advising
     him that the Master used the "BECOME" command and confirming all
     commands entered by the Master.  WARNING:  this message will include
     Master commands that preceded the BECOME command.  Masters therefore
     should not use any commands in the same message as a BECOME that they
     wouldn't want the player to see.

     The BECOME command is not necessary to submit a power's orders.
     Orders for units belonging to one or more powers can be submitted as
     the Master, but the true owner of the power will not receive the
     confirmation reply from the judge.  Orders for multiple units can
     be specified on the same line, separated by commas or semicolons; but
     you shouldn't mix orders for units belonging to multiple powers on the
     same line.  Also note that the "orders have been received" flag will NOT
     get set for a particular power if their orders were submitted by the
     Master without the BECOME command.  It this case, it may be necessary to
     use the PROCESS command to get the phase processed.

     You can also use the "BECOME" command to "SET ABSENCE" for a player, 
     either because the player isn't clear on how to do it themselves, or
     because their requested absence exceeds the current MAXABSENCE setting. 
     The MAXABSENCE setting does not apply to absences entered by the Master
     using the BECOME command.

     The "BECOME" command does not reveal the power's password to the Master
     (except on some older versions of the Judge software).  However, the
     Master can use the "SET PASSWORD" command after "BECOME" to change the
     password for a player who has lost or forgotten their password.
     Example:

       signon mexample password
       press to X
       Your new password will be "iforgot" (without the quotation marks.)
       -- Master
       endpress
       become X
       set password iforgot
       signoff


   PROCESS [season year phase]
     This forces the judge to process orders immediately with whatever
     it has in its list.  Partial or nonexistent orders do not cause 
     powers to be considered in civil disorder.  This can be useful
     after a "ROLLBACK" command or if you want to not wait for a player
     for some particular reason.  If the optional (but highly recommended)
     phase is specified, the process command will be ignored unless that is
     indeed the current phase.  Specifying the phase allows you to avoid
     potential disaster if the judge processed the phase shortly ahead of
     getting your request.  Without it, your command would process the
     subsequent phase which could potentially expose orders that players had
     pending. A typical "season year phase" specification might be "fall 1905
     retreat".

   ROLLBACK [turn_number]
     This allows you to roll the game back to the specified turn number.
     The turn number is displayed in all the reports and lists, starting
     at 001 for spring movement of 1901 and incrementing for each actual
     phase that's played. Retreats and adjustments that are not played do
     not increment the turn number. If turn_number is omitted, the game will
     be rolled back to the immediately preceding turn. Specifically, this
     command will roll back the game to its state immediately before
     turn_number was processed, so if you want to roll the game back to the
     very start you could use "ROLLBACK 1".  By contrast, "ROLLBACK 2" will
     return a Standard game to the state that existed after Spring 1901 Moves
     but before Fall 1901 Moves.

     History is kept for at least a month, but it may not be possible to go
     back too far -- this command is intended to go back one phase for the
     case where one person's orders get messed up and need to be resubmitted.
     Orders for intermediate turns that were skipped over should remain
     intact, but those previous orders may wind up being meaningless based on
     changes in the results of the reprocessed turn.  Any pending orders that
     existed will also be reprocessed so if they were revised by hand the
     first time the replayed phase was processed the revisions may get lost.

   EJECT power|email_address
     This allows you to "resign" any player or Observer from your game.
     Obviously, this command should be used with some discretion.  You must
     use the "email_address" form to specify who to eject if there is more
     than one person assigned to a given power; most often, this would be
     true for Observers.  You can also "EJECT" yourself as Master; if there
     is no other Master, however, you shouldn't do this unless the Judge
     allows unmoderated games and you have used the SET UNMODERATED command
     first.

   PROMOTE email_address
     Promotes the specified person, who must already have signed on to the
     game as an Observer, to Master status.  This command allows a game to
     have multiple Masters; very handy if you are going off on vacation or
     have an unexpected business trip.

   SET [UN]MODERATED
     This command sets or clears the flag that disallows the other players
     from adjusting the deadlines and other parameters associated with the
     game.  By default the moderated flag will be enabled when the you
     first become Master.  Clearing the flag with "SET UNMODERATED" will
     allow the players to control the game while still giving you the
     ability to use the other commands accessible only to the Master.

   SET [NO]PROXY
     This command sets or clears the flag that allows one player to give
     control of one or more of his units to another player.

   SET COMMENT text
     This command sets or clears the text that appears in the brief listing
     format.  The text consists of the remainder of the line.  A null text
     field will clear the brief comment.  The brief comment should be less
     than 60 characters.

   SET COMMENT BEGIN
     If the text of the comment is the keyword "begin" the remainder of 
     the mail message up to a SIGNOFF command will be used for the full 
     comment.  Placing a SIGNOFF command directly after the "set comment 
     begin" command will clear the full comment.  Please note that there is
     no way to end the full comment other than a SIGNOFF command, or the end 
     of the mail message.

   SET ALL PRESS
     This command sets the flag that will cause all partial press between
     the players to be copied (silently) to you as well.  This is useful
     in a gunboat game to see what devious plans the players are preparing.
     It is not too useful in non-gunboat games as players may communicate
     directly rather than going through the judge so you may miss traffic.
     Note, if you use this option you must pay careful attention so that
     you don't leak any information to the other players.

   SET NORMAL PRESS
     This command clears the "all press" flag.

Get the file 'index' for a complete list of the rest of the flags that
you can set or clear as the Master.  In general, the commands listed in this
document can only be used by a Master; but the other "SET" commands listed
in file 'index' can also be used by any player in an unmoderated game.

The reply that you get back from the judge after signing on as Master
(unless you relinquish the Master status by using the BECOME command)
will include the [partial] orders that the players have submitted.  It
is assumed that if you are taking the role of Master that you will not
leak this information to the wrong people.

As a special note about finding replacement players, the proper way to
get a new player signed on is to allow him to submit the SIGNON himself
for an abandoned power.  You can always EJECT the old player, but
if you then BECOME that power and use "SET ADDRESS" and "SET PASSWORD"
to set it up for the new player, the judge won't properly update the internal
tables that indicate who is playing that power.  The dedication ratings and
site access info may not reflect what is really happening if the player
doesn't go through the taking over of the power himself.  It is possible to
submit mail to the judge and make it look like it came from the player,
however.  The judge only pays attention to the last "Reply-To: " line that it
finds in the mail, or if there isn't a Reply-To, then to the last "From: "
that it finds.  Thus you can submit a message to the judge that looks like:

    Reply-To: user@host.domain.org
    SIGNON xname password

to ensure that that player gets signed on properly.  You won't, however,
get a reply from the judge (it will go to the player) so you're really
operating blind if you do this.  It is preferred to have the player do
the SIGNON himself.

For further information, see the files 'house.rules' and 'how2gm', which are
available via mail to the judge, using the "GET file" command.


-----

* Diplomacy is a trademark of Avalon Hill, a division of Hasbro, Inc., all
  rights reserved.  Used with permission.

