Greetings from the Diplomacy* Adjudicator!!                      3 March, 2003
Press.

The Judge software includes a mechanism for sending press messages to other
players in a game of Diplomacy.  The types of press allowed depend on the game
settings. Press messages can be sent to one or more individual players, or can
be broadcast to all players and observers.  White press refers to messages sent
to other players which indicates who it is from.  Grey press is sent out
anonymously; the sender may sign his own, or someone else's, name to it, but
the Judge will not verify the source of the message.  In addition, the game
settings can allow press sent to individual people to be faked to appear as a
broadcast message to all people or to an alternate set of people.  Finally,
Postal Press is delayed until after the results of the current phase have been
processed (while all other press is sent immediately).

The types of press allowed in a particular game are shown by the LIST
command.  The keywords are:

   None:
        No press at all is allowed, except press to and from the Master.

   White:  
        Only white press is allowed in this game.

   Grey:   
        Only grey press is allowed in this game (however, press to the
        Master will always be sent as white press).

   White/Grey: 
        Both white and grey press are allowed.  By default press will be 
        white (press to the Master will always be sent as white press).

   Grey/White: 
        Both white and grey press are allowed. By default press will be 
        grey (however, press to the Master will always be sent as white).

   -------

   Observer any:
        Observers can post press with the same restrictions as regular
        players.  This is the default and does not show up on list output.

   Observer partial:
        Observers can post both broadcast and partial press.

   Observer white:
        Observers cannot post grey press.  In a game that only allows grey
        press from players, press from observers will show up as white press.

   Observer none:
        Observers cannot post press at all, except to the Master.

   -------
 
   Partial Allowed:
        Players may send messages to any one or more other players.

   No Partial: 
        Only broadcast messages to all players can be sent. Press to
        individual players is disallowed, except press to the Master only.
        This option is only useful in Gunboat variants where the identities
        of the other players are unknown.

   No Fake:
        Messages sent to individuals cannot appear as broadcast messages
        or vice versa, nor can messages sent to one group of individuals
        appear as though it was sent to an alternate group.

   Partial may be Faked
        Messages sent to individuals can appear as broadcast messages or
        can appear as though they were sent to an alternate group.

   Partial Fakes Broadcast by default
        Messages sent to individuals will appear as broadcast messages to
        all players unless otherwise specified.

   Partial Fakes Broadcast
        All messages, whether broadcast or to individuals, will appear as
        though they were a broadcast message to all players.

   Note:  If fake press is allowed in a game, press to the Master will NOT be
   faked, and you will get scolded if you try.

   -------

   PostalPress:
        Players may send delayed (broadcast-only) messages that will not
        be distributed until after the current phase is processed.  This may
        be enabled in addition to, or in lieu of, other forms of press.


The "SET" command can be used to change which of these options is allowed.  In
moderated games only a Master can use the SET press commands.  By default,
games are "White, Partial Allowed, No Fake, No PostalPress".  For example:

   SET GREY, PARTIAL FAKES BROADCAST

would mean that all press (except to or from the Master) would appear to be a
grey broadcast message, even if it is actually sent to only one player.

To send messages to other players you can use the "BROADCAST" or "PRESS"
commands which are almost synonymous:

   BROADCAST [options]          -or-            PRESS options

By default, the BROADCAST command without options is equivalent to "PRESS TO
ALL"; that is, the message will be sent to all players.   However, using the
PRESS command without any options will result in no message being sent. 
This is to prevent accidental broadcasts, which can result in your secret
attack plans being sent to the entire game.  Finally, if BROADCAST *is*
followed by options, it is treated exactly the same as a PRESS command (so
if, for some odd reason, you wrote "BROADCAST TO G", the message would go
only to Germany and not to the entire game).

The message can be terminated in one of four ways: the commands "SIGNOFF",
"ENDPRESS", or "ENDBROADCAST" appearing alone on a line, or by the end of
the mail input.  Note that "ENDPRESS" and "ENDBROADCAST" are interchange-
able (that is, a "PRESS" command can be terminated by "ENDBROADCAST" and
vice versa); also that no space can appear after "end" in either case.
If "SIGNOFF", "ENDPRESS", or "ENDBROADCAST" appear at the beginning of a
line with other text, they are *not* considered to be commands, and the
message is *not* terminated.

If the message is terminated by "SIGNOFF", then all other text in the mail
input is ignored.  If the message is terminated by "ENDPRESS" or 
"ENDBROADCAST", then the next line is treated as a normal command line, thus
allowing normal commands to be mixed with press messages in any order, as
well as allowing for multiple press messages in a single mail input.

The "POSTALPRESS" command is used to send Postal Press.  Currently, no
options are available for this command.  All Postal Press is sent to all
players, and the identity of the sender is always revealed.

The options available when sending non-Postal press are:

   WHITE | UNANONYMOUS | UNANONYMOUSLY
        The message is sent out with your power and return address
        specified.  This is only necessary if white and grey press
        are both allowed and grey is the default.

   GREY | ANONYMOUS | ANONYMOUSLY
        The message is sent out with no indication as to the originator.
        This is only necessary if white and grey press are both allowed
        and white is the default.

   TO list | +list
        The message will be sent just to the list of powers specified.
        The list consists of the single character identifier for the
        powers concatenated as a single word.  Thus "PRESS TO frg"
        would send the message to France, Russia and Germany in a
        standard variant game.  In most variants the first letter of
        the power is usually the character (cf: India in the Youngstown
        variant is N rather than I since the latter is used to represent 
        Italy).  The special characters OM are interpreted Observer and
        Master respectively in all variants.

        BE CAREFUL - only use initials in the list; you may be dismayed if
        you type "PRESS TO Turkey", because the Judge will try to interpret
        "Turkey" as a list of initials.  In a standard game, this will result
        in an error message, because U, K, and Y are not valid power
        initials; in some variants, however, you might end up sending a
        message to six players!

   TO ALL BUT list | -list
        As above except the message is sent to the complement of the
        list specified.  Note that since all press that can be read by
        Observers is archived in the game's history file, a message sent
        'PRESS TO ALL BUT r' (for example) will be available to Russia by
        means of the History command.  Use 'PRESS TO ALL BUT ro' to be
        sure that the message isn't archived.

   [NO]FAKE [BROADCAST]
        The message is faked (or not) as a broadcast message to all
        players.

   FAKE [PARTIAL] TO [ALL BUT] list | FAKE +list | FAKE -list
        The message is faked as going to the set of people specified
        even though it may be a broadcast message or be a message sent
        to an alternate set of people.

For fake press, you must first specify the real recipients of the press (if
not specified, a broadcast is assumed), then put the word "FAKE" followed by
the addressees to be named in the message header (again, if not specified, it
is assumed that a fake broadcast is intended).  For example, "PRESS FAKE TO
FRG" will be interpreted as a broadcast message to everyone that is faked as
going to France, Russia and Germany rather than a message going to France,
Russia and Germany that is faked as a broadcast.  If the latter was intended
the keyword "FAKE" can be placed at the end as in "PRESS TO FRG FAKE" or the
keyword "BROADCAST" must be specified as in "PRESS FAKE BROADCAST TO FRG".

As an example in a grey press game allowing fake broadcasts, Italy might
start off the game by posting the following press message:

   PRESS TO ALL BUT G FAKE BROADCAST
   This is Germany and I think you all are wimps.  I bet I can win even
   if you all gang up against me.

   -Kaiser Bill
   ENDPRESS

Everyone but Germany would get a Diplomacy Notice message with a header
that read "Broadcast message in game xxxx:".  [Remember, however, that if
Germany thinks to issue a "HISTORY" command, he can see this in the history
archive.  If this is undesirable, the command here should read 'PRESS TO
ALL BUT go FAKE BROADCAST'.]  Then in the same (or a separate) message to
the adjudicator (since there can be more than one press message per mail
message) Italy could issue:

   PRESS TO R
   This is Austria, boy that Germany sure is obnoxious.  Let's go all out
   against him!

   -Ferdinand
   SIGNOFF

Russia would get the message with a header of "Message to Russia in gamename:".  Of course this trick wouldn't work if the game was White press
since Italy's name would be in the header.  If it was White/Grey Italy would
have to throw in the "GREY" keyword to get the effect, but even then (or if
the game was Grey/White) it wouldn't quite be the same since if Germany
really meant to be so obnoxious why wouldn't he just send the messages
out as white press?

Press to the Master only is always allowed, no matter what the press settings
are, so that requests for deadline extensions, or any other message needing
the Master's attention, can be sent without having to resort to direct email
outside of the game.  This can be very useful if a player and the Game Master
are on nodes that cannot communicate directly, although both can communicate
with the Judge.  Likewise, a Master can always issue press commands, to
facilitate communicating with the players (to announce that he's going to be
unavailable for a while, to respond to a player's message to him, or to ask
a player a question).

There are some commands that cause Diplomacy Notices to be sent out to
all the players (e.g., changing your return address in a non-gunboat game).
If one of these commands has been processed and a partial, faked partial
or grey press message is attempted, the adjudicator will send out the
notice(s) as separate messages, to all players, and the partial, faked,
or grey press will be sent as designated.

-----

* Diplomacy is a trademark of the Avalon Hill Game Company, Baltimore,
  Maryland, all rights reserved.  Used with permission.
