Greetings from the Diplomacy* Adjudicator!!                     3 February, 2003
Rules.

The rules of Diplomacy are copyrighted by the Avalon Hill Game Company, a
division of Hasbro.  At time of writing, 4th Edition 2000 rules were
available online at http://www.hasbro.com/common/instruct/Diplomacy.PDF 
An older (undated) edition of the rules was at http://www.hasbro.com/common/instruct/Diplomacy(OlderVers).PDF
If you are unable to obtain rules online, you may inquire to Hasbro.

See file 'house.rules' for rules concerning the use of the Judge and the
conduct of games.  This file only covers the rules for interpretation and
adjudication of orders.

The adjudicator follows the 1990 edition of the Rules of Diplomacy as
specified by The Avalon Hill Company (note: there are no major differences
between the 1990 and 2000 rules, but the numbering is completely different),
with the following exceptions:

VII.3.b: When a fleet can move to two coasts and the coast is not specified,
         the adjudicator will pick an arbitrary coast.  Actually not totally
         arbitrary, but the first one in its movement list.  The same process
         will apply when a unit is ordered to support a fleet that can move to
         two coasts.

VII.7:   Abbreviations are the first three characters of the province name
         except for provinces starting with 'gul', 'liv', 'nor' and 'tyr'.  
         These are abbreviated as follows:

           gob: Gulf of Bothnia
           gol: Gulf of Lyon
           lvp: Liverpool
           lvn: Livonia
           naf: North Africa
           nat: North Atlantic Ocean
           nrg: Norwegian Sea
           nth: North Sea
           nwy: Norway
           tyr: Tyrolia
           tys: Tyrrhenian Sea

         Other reasonable abbreviations are also defined.  For a complete
         list see the 'map' file, available with the "GET MAP" command.

IX.1:    Do not specify owners of units in support and convoy orders.  This
         redundant specification would unnecessarily complicate the parser.
         The movement results will indicate the alternate power on support
         and convoy orders.

IX.7:    Based on the second statement after XIV.5, IX.7 does not apply if
         either or both of the dislodged or dislodging unit is convoyed.

XII:     Armies intending to use a convoy must specify the convoy route in
         their movement orders as in the examples: 

               A LON-ENG-BEL, 
               F ENG C A LON-BEL.

         or    A LON-ENG-MID-WES-TUN, 
               F ENG C A LON-TUN, 
               F MID C A LON-TUN,
               F WES C A LON-TUN,
               A NAF S A LON-TUN.

XII.4:   Since convoy routes must be specified, there will never be any
         ambiguity.

XII.5:   This rule when taken literally can have some unintended results.
         For example:

         England: F Iri-Mid, F Eng S F Iri-Mid
         France:  F Spa(nc) S F Mid, F Mid Convoy A Por-Bre, A Por-Mid-Bre
         Italy:   F Gulf of Lyon Convoy A Tus-Spa, A Tus-GoL-Spa
 
         What happens in the Mid-Atlantic Ocean?  What if the additional
         order
 
         Italy:   A Mar S A Tus-Spa
 
         is entered?  With literal interpretation of the rules, the fleet
         in Spain would be dislodged, but its support to the fleet in the
         Mid-Atlantic Ocean (of an action in a body of water containing a
         convoying fleet) would not be cut.  This adjudicator makes five
         passes to determine what support gets cut:

         1) Normal non-convoyed movement cuts support.
         2) Any armies being convoyed by fleets that would be dislodged
            without further support cuts are flagged "maybe no convoy".
         3) Any convoyed armies without the "maybe no convoy" status cut
            support provided by units in their destination provinces.
         4) Any armies being convoyed by fleets that still would be 
            dislodged are flagged "definitely no convoy".
         5) Any armies still flagged "maybe no convoy" status cut support
            of units in their destination provinces.  The "maybe no convoy"
            status is cleared.

         Using this algorithm, Spain's support above would be cut in pass
         three.  The Mid-Atlantic Ocean's dislodgement would be detected
         in pass four.  Portugal would be given the "no convoy" status and
         thus would have no effect on any unit in Brest in pass five.

XII.6:   This rule does not apply because an army must specify its convoy
         route in order to be convoyed.  Convoys between adjacent provinces
         are permitted if explicitly ordered.

XIII.2:  Possible builds not being using must be specifically marked
         using the WAIVE command or your orders will be marked as unfinished.

XIV.4:   In an NMR game, if a power is required to remove a unit and no valid
         order is received, the least recently produced unit that is not at a
         supply center will be disbanded.  This is the first one listed on
         the reports which will be the one most likely to be furthest away
         from a home supply center.

Unusual Board Situations:

Certain extremely rare situations are not covered by the rules of
Diplomacy.  (For example, Pandin's paradox discovered by Tony Pandin
in which a convoy causes its own disruption.) In such a situation,
the results of the Diplomacy Adjudicator will be accepted as final.

-----

* Diplomacy is a trademark of Avalon Hill, a division of Hasbro, Inc., all
  rights reserved.  Used with permission.

