Greetings from the Diplomacy* Adjudicator!!                   30 July, 2000
transform

Several new options are provided allowing players to transform units under
restricted circumstances, allowing an ill-chosen fleet to be replaced by
an army etc. 
These options are passed following the 'set transform' command, and can
be passed in any order. They are divided into two categories, 'when' switches 
and 'where' switches'. Within each category, they are mutually exclusive, hence
setting one then another will cause the last one received to be activated.

These non-default game settings can be chosen in the following ways:

When switches:
--------------
move:
Transformations are allow in any move phase.
Any unit ordered to transform that is dislodged has the transformation 
automatically cancelled. As a transform move works like a hold move, it can 
however be given support and, if not dislodged, will work. You do not support 
a transformation, merely support said unit to hold.

build:
Transformations are allowed in any build phase. 
As any player can perform this movement in a build phase,
unless no buildable centres are occupied by a unit of theirs, an automatic
'wait' is placed on the build phase.

anytime:
Transformations are allowed in either a move or a build phase.

none:
Transformations are not allowed in any phase (i.e. no transformations).

Where switches:
--------------
home centre:
Transformations are allowed only for units on a player's home centres.

one centre:
Transformations are allowed in any centre as long as the player owns at
least one home centre.

any centre:
Transformations are allowed in any centre.

anywhere:
Transformations are allowed in any province. The exceptions to this are
water spaces, and for wings that are blockading during a build phase.


The order syntax is quite simply:

for moves:
[<unit>] <location> transforms to <unit> [<coast>]

for build phases:
transform <unit> <location> [<coast>]

The abbreviation 'trafo' can be used for both of these forms, but otherwise 
cannot be further shortened (to avoid confusion with the 'transport' 
abbreviations already in existance).


Moderator note: You can freely enable/disable these switches before the game 
starts but NOT once it has begun.

-----

* Diplomacy is a trademark of the Avalon Hill Game Company, Baltimore,
  Maryland, all rights reserved.  Used with permission.
